Minutes of 46th CMETS-NR meeting held on 10.04.2026
drawl at one location to cater to peak hours. M/s Juniper vide mail 13.04.26 requested to allow drawl from the Grid for BESS
applications in line with provisions of GNA regulations and consider processing the same at the earliest. M/s Juniper also informed
that in case there would be a deviation from regulations, they would be constrained to accept the same under protest so that
applications are processed without further delay.
iv) Purvah Green Power limited:
Purvah Green Power submitted that prohibiting grid drawl prevents the developers from meeting RTC tender conditions that allow
5–10% grid drawl. Further, it was stated that relying purely on additional solar for charging of BESS is difficult as during lean solar
generation periods like monsoons, drawl from the grid will be required. Allowing drawl under existing solar‑hour access does not
constrain optimum utilisation of the ISTS system, as BESS charging depends on its MW rating, energy capacity, and operating
cycle. For example, with 300 MW solar‑hour access and a 150 MW / 600 MWh BESS, the battery can be fully charged in about 2
hours, leaving 2–3 solar hours for full dispatch of solar power to the grid.
Accordingly, PGPL disagreed with the imposed conditions and requested CTUIL to engage in one on one discussions with
developers to appreciate the practical challenges.
v) Hinduja Renewables
Hinduja Renewables submitted that these imposed conditions for restriction on drawl from grid or solar hour access are not in line
with the CERC Regulation and emphasized that the new procedure was not yet public or notified, and it requires more deliberation
between the developers to understand our business cases and developers needed more time to align their internal investment
cases with these changes.
vi) Serentica Renewables/Khidrat renewables
Serentica Renewables during the meeting and vide email dated 16.04.2026 submitted that the proposed conditions are beyond
the extant regulatory framework and are not envisaged under the GNA & Connectivity Regulations, 2022. Such restrictions would
adversely impact deployment of BESS, particularly for C&I consumers seeking to enhance CUF through hybrid configurations.
Page 5 of 20