Minutes of 46th CMETS-NR meeting held on 10.04.2026
hour access for charging the BESS and draw power from the Grid for charging as and when required to ensure efficient and viable
operation of the project.
xiii) MNRE:
MNRE suggested that the views of the RE developers shall be considered before enforcing the installation of commensurate RE
capacity for charging of their BESS capacity.
6. After above views and concerns of developers, the following were clarified:
a. The conditions being proposed for RoFR based BESS applications are based on directions issued in the above CEA meetings
wherein it was emphasized that the fundamental objective of the 3rd amendment and associated framework is to improve over-
all utilisation of ISTS capacity under non-solar hours and prevent under-utilisation of transmission infrastructure implemented
for evacuation of solar generation.
The concept of solar hour access and non-solar hour access was introduced to address, under-utilisation of ISTS during
evening / night hours and non-solar hour access under RoFR was specifically designed as a privilege to existing connectivity
grantees, enabling them to make effective use of under-utilized transmission capacity during non-solar hours.
b. RE developers mentioned that they have submitted BESS applications considering the drawl from ISTS grid for charging,
however in case of the mandate for installation of commensurate RE for charging of BESS then sufficient time shall be provided
for installation of RE generation and during the interim period charging from ISTS grid may be allowed. CTU informed that
considering the issues raised by various developers it may be permitted to install BESS earlier than the commissioning of the
commensurate RE. The BESS charging from ISTS may be allowed during the interim period and any transmission
augmentation for BESS charging would not be under-taken.
However, the developers agreeing to install additional RE must ensure that commensurate RE capacity is installed within 36
months from the date of the in-principle grant of connectivity to BESS or firm start date of existing connectivity, whichever is
later.
Page 8 of 20