Minutes of 46th CMETS-NR meeting held on 10.04.2026
The imposition of these conditions would make compliance with DSM Regulations increasingly challenging in the absence of
operational flexibility for battery integration.
M/s Serentica requested to expedite issuance of in-principle and final Connectivity approval for their applications and also
mentioned that they would reserve their right to challenge the imposition of such conditions, as they deviate from the provisions
of the applicable regulatory framework
vii) TP Saurya
TP Saurya Urja in the meeting as well vide mail dated 15.04.26 submitted that Regulation 5.2A specifically allows REGS with
storage to schedule drawl for BESS. There is no such restriction imposed under the regulation that collocated REGS cannot draw
power from ISTS. It was further added that FDRE conditions mandate two BESS injection cycles, during the evening peak and
morning peak. Charging for the evening peak shall be met through the approved solar-hour access connectivity of which have
already been applied. Charging for the morning peak shall be scheduled from the associated wind plant under FDRE; however,
grid drawl may also be required in case of insufficient wind generation.
M/s TP Saurya requested to process the application at the earliest and in case the connectivity is granted with restriction on drawl,
applicant reserves the right to seek appropriate remedy.
viii) MRS Buildvision Pvt Ltd.
M/s MRSBPL during the meeting and vide email dated 13.04.2026 submitted that these conditions do not form part of the extant
regulatory framework and may materially impact the technical and commercial viability of the proposed BESS. Further added that
these conditions restrict operational flexibility & significantly increase project costs, thereby affecting overall cost-effectiveness.
Further, M/s MRSBPL added that they are intending to design RE plants with a DC capacity of approx 140%–150% of AC
capacity to meet contractual obligations and ensure optimal utilization. During peak generation periods, excess energy (clipping)
is typically curtailed. Allowing such otherwise wasted energy to be used for BESS charging would significantly improve efficiency
and project economics.
Page 6 of 20